PAUL LEWIS: I don't
know if you remember
me saying those masthead images,
I've got a plan for that.
So that should mean that I
can do this kind of effect
and then have other stuff
behind it peeking through
and all the rest of it, which is
exactly the effect that I want.
And I didn't know exactly how
I was going to achieve it.
Whew!
I was wrong.
I was very wrong,
because it turns out
Edge doesn't support clip-path.
Fair enough.
Every browser is
a different stage
of supporting this and that.
So it's not a big deal.
But it was going
to be my solution.
If you remember,
this is what I had.
I had these images.
And I wanted the image itself
to do kind of a background size
cover and then for
the clip at the bottom
to just be applied
after the fact
just to do that diagonal
slice along the bottom.
And I know I could use
a canvas, because it
would be a few lines of code
to actually clip like that.
But I didn't want to.
And the reason I
don't want to is
because it felt like it would
make JavaScript a requirement
to get the basic
page content there.
And that's not something
I wanted to do.
And I felt like it should
be doable, either directly
with SVG or-- well, it was
going to fine with clip-path,
but as I say, I can't use that.
So here's where we kind
of left the SVG version,
because I had to go back to
the drawing board a little bit.
So it was either
going to scale down
like this-- which would leave
a gap at the top of the page--
or it would squash and stretch,
causing the image to distort.
And I was like, well,
neither is good.
This one was the
least bad version.
Though I felt that, if I set
this as a background image--
and then told it to background
size cover from the bottom--
then I would end up with
something like this,
which actually wasn't miles off
until it kind of gets to this--
whoa, maybe a bit small,
there we are--this point.
Where if you got the wrong
kind of image-- I say wrong,
it's bit hard on Darren--
Darren's getting clipped.
And so that wasn't good.
And so my solution
there was to do
this, where as it gets
wider, we transform it down.
And you can do
that with some CSS
inside the SVG, which
you can see here.
And it's basically
done on breakpoints.
So I have to kind of
tweak it as we go.
The idea is that you can
transform the image that
is inside the pattern.
And that will
probably be in here
in the defs inside the pattern.
There you are.
There's the image.
We can transform that
down proportional
to the viewport widths.
So as it gets wider it
gets pushed down more.
It gets transformed
down even more.
Problem being Edge doesn't
support CSS transforms
on SVG elements yet.
Right.
So that solution didn't work.
And, to be clear,
I spent six hours
on this particular
problem trying
every different
permutation, trying
to get something that would work
happily in Chrome, in Firefox,
in Safari, and Edge.
And it was a real
toughie, actually.
It really took it out of me.
Because I was just trying so
many different combinations
and thinking one of
these should work.
Anyway the clue that I should
have heard in my inside voice,
inside my head, was
I want something
that behaves like a div
with background size
cover, and yet be like it's
in SVG with the clipping.
If you've not come
across foreignObject,
welcome to foreignObject
101 with me,
where I'll explain how
it is that I'm actually
using foreignObject.
This, in fact, gives me, by
the way, the same kind of look
as I had in the previous
one, but it actually
works everywhere.
And the way it does it-- let
me switch across to the code--
is we have foreignObject
inside of the SVG.
And we can apply that clip
to the foreign object.
So that's going
to clip-- whatever
the foreign object is-- and
the foreign object is just
100% width and height.
What is foreignObject?
Right.
It allows you to embed
some HTML inside of an SVG.
So I have in here a div.
And I probably need
to add some area rules
to that to make sure that
this is showing up correctly
for screen readers and the like.
But you see all
these break points.
Basically that DIV
has a background--
and you see that's kind
of dynamically set--
but all the same, it
has a background image
set to background size cover.
And so the foreign
object is basically
drop that image inside of
the SVG as this totally other
rendered thing which happens
to be the correct thing that I
want.
And I set it with
background position
to move it down proportional
to the screen's width.
Why don't I use transform?
Well, two reasons.
Firstly, thankfully
I'm not animating this.
So I don't need to
worry about using,
say, just transforms
and opacity.
If I did, then this would be
problematic because, if you try
and transform this
down, the foreign object
and the clip and the transform
don't work with Safari.
That particular combination,
it stops clipping,
and just starts to
transform the content down.
So the fact that I want it
transformed-- or at least to be
moved-- and clipped, and in
HTML, and all the rest of it
means foreignObject.
It means using background
position, which I can set
and I can use to move things.
And as I say, because I'm not
animating background position,
it's not going to be
a performance issue.
And there you go.
That's six hours of
my life fighting.
I know you can see there's
quite a lot of breakpoints.
But it does at least work, to
which we can say, Paul one,
browsers nil.
Ha ha!
[MUSIC PLAYING]